<!-- PROVENANCE: HMHW Section 8 / Cash Course (NEW, 2026) | YouTube KGXI134QiaM | auto-captions via yt-dlp, ingested 2026-06-14. CANONICAL HMHW. -->

# Section 8 / Cash Course (NEW, 2026) — transcript (YouTube auto-captions)

Hey guys, welcome to the section 8 cash course. There are two types of cash deals that we do in Hold My Hand Who Wholesale. We do section 8 deals and we do fix and flip deals. And then within section 8 deals, there are distress section 8 deals and there are turnkey section 8 deals. Today we're going to be disregarding the whole fix and flip side of things and just talking about section 8. But it's important to note that a lot of this stuff overlaps because at the end of the day, they're both cash deals. So section 8 refers to the eighth section of some government document somewhere that outlines free housing. Essentially, if you can't afford rent in the United States because of your income, uh you can get that subsidized for you by the United States government. They'll typically pay anywhere from 70 to upwards of 100% of your rent each month. Influencers like Tom Cruz, not the actor, the real estate investor, have recently massively popularized the idea of becoming a section 8 landlord. And this is great news for us wholesalers, as these section 8 guys have no idea where to find their next deal. And it's some of the lowest hanging fruit in real estate to find a section 8 real estate investor their next property to purchase. I should know. I taught a damn 12-year-old how to do it. In case you're unaware of Anson Lee, Anen Lee sourced 9529 Mount Auburn Avenue for buyer Harry Goldblat and got paid a $3,000 finder fee on month one of Hold My Hand Who Wholesale. He's on to much bigger things now, but I like to think of these cash deals as some of the easiest wholesale deals that you can do. There are, however, trade-offs with cash deals versus creative finance deals, which have often led me to favor creative finance deals in the past. It's kind of in the name. When you're buying a house in cash or well, here's the thing. I refer to it as cash, but really I just mean when you're buying the house as a lump sum without creative finance. It's important to note that if you go to a realtor and say this is a cash offer, there's not going to be a financing contingency in that offer. For our purposes, though, when I use the word cash, I just mean it's not seller finance. It's not mortgage takeover. It's just the seller gets the lump sum up front. The trade-off is the buyer usually has to pay the entire purchase price up front or get a loan and put a large amount of money down. As such, these deals are a heavier trigger to pull, so to speak. If you're a buyer and you're purchasing properties and you have a creative finance deal with a 5 to 10% down payment, it's a lot easier to buy that house than if you're buying a house in cash or with a 20% down payment and the 7% interest rate plus a qualification process just to get the loan. So, while these are really lowhanging fruit deals, they don't always sell. And I want to be transparent with you about that. You can ensure that they always sell, but you just need an exorbitant discount. The good news is I would say maybe three out of five of these deals sell. I almost feel bad talking about this, guys. Um, there are houses on Zillow right now for $100,000. And if you get a $100,000 house for 70K, which is fairly easy given that the 12-year-old did it, there's a pretty decent chance, as in like 60 to 70% chance that you make $5,000. And for me, it's worth it to shoot our shot because at the end of the day, getting a property under contract doesn't cost us anything. So, I have to let you know off the bat, you can get a cash deal under contract like literally today. It is so, so easy. But is it as likely to sell as a creative finance deal? No, largely because you haven't provided as much value to the end buyer. I've recently flipped a couple properties and I'm refilming this course because I have a lot of new insights as to what makes one of these properties sell as I now own them. So, without further ado, uh let's cover section 8. Guys, I want to break section 8 up into two pieces. We have distressed section 8, which is [ __ ] boxes, destroyed houses, and we have turnkey section 8, which is what these formerly were. They get renovated and they turn into this. The strategy is pretty simple on both of these properties. In fact, this entire video could be summed up by saying you should offer 70% of what these properties are listed for. However, we can get a little bit more analytical about it. So, without further ado, guys, I'm going to open Zillow. I'm going to share my screen and we're going to look at some deals together, and I'm going to tell you what I might have offered on those properties. But, I'd also like to show you some real life examples just so you know that this actually works. Generally speaking, when you have a section 8 deal, your low-end profit will be about $2 to $3,000 and your high-end profit could be as much as $10,000. But guys, remember, anything is possible. All right, so pulling up Zillow.com, I just want to identify what turnkey versus distressed means. One of my favorite markets to make offers in. Honestly, so many markets just came to my mind. I'm thinking like Akran, Ohio, Cleveland, Ohio, Dayton, Ohio, Columbus, Ohio. It's not all Ohio. I also like Montgomery, Alabama, Birmingham, Alabama, Memphis, Tennessee, Indianapolis. I mean, the list goes on and on and on. If you're looking for section 8 deals, one of the most important things to do is ensure that it's cheap. If your property is below $100,000, remember how I said the trigger can be kind of heavy to pull as a buyer when it's a cash deal or lump sum money upfront, not creative finance? Well, keeping your price point low makes it a lot easier for those buyers to pick up these deals. So, as I said, there's a plethora of cities where you can do this. Uh, let's go to Memphis, Tennessee. I've just done so many deals in Memphis, Tennessee. Okay, as you can see, there's 2,800 houses for sale in Memphis, and most of these houses are for sale below $100,000. So, this is just an absolute playground for me. I get giddy looking at something like this. Um, again, guys, this video could be summed up by get any of these properties for 70%. Not this one. get any of the Oh, okay. Now it's starting to become a little bit more expensive, guys. Okay, so what is a turnkey property? Well, let's look at this guy right here. Um, looking through this, the boards on the window are not the worst sign in the world. This is just something that the city asks you to do to prevent break-ins. But looking through this property, this is definitely distressed. Like definitely definitely definitely distressed. What is it? It's a duplex. It's a two bed, one bath duplex. Each side of the unit is a two bed, one bath. Uh, it's been here for 49 days. And And this is your distress duplex. I I honestly just want to go into the comping process and show you how to make an offer on this. Again, loosely 70% of what it's listed for is probably a deal. Definitely factor in your days on market here. If it's been there for 150 days, you know that they're way off on price and you should probably go steeper than 70%. But we'll get to that later. That's your distress one. That's what distress looks like. But distress could be much much much worse than that. You know that that's actually not that bad. You know, this would work, guys. All of these are viable. It's been here for 7 days. Looks like it's been gutted. This isn't the worst thing I've ever seen, guys. I mean, it's just ready for drywall. It's going to need some work, but at the end of the day, you know, if you got this thing for like 20 or 30K, we'd probably find you a buyer. So, yeah, another example of a distressed one. So, I still haven't exactly found our turnkey house yet. Let me go ahead and put in a price filter because remember I don't really want to go after anything above like 120 unless I'm really steeply lowballing them. Guys, remember the lower the price point the better the deal. This heavily has to do with the effect of interest rates on these figures. I mean guys, if you buy a house for 120,000, you put down 20%, you get a 7% interest rate, it's still going to cash flow. But remember, interest rates are really high right now. So low price point allows you to still cash flow. But if you go above $120,000, your cash flow starts to get thinner and thinner and thinner, and then investors aren't as interested in your deal. So, I put in a maximum price point of $120,000. I'm going to price these high to low to see what's listed for 120. Anything turnkey at this price point. Let's look at this guy right here. Uh, this is lived in. Um, but it looks like they've taken pretty good care of the unit. Um, I I would consider that to be turnkey. Let's see if we can find an even better example. Yeah, you know, that's definitely distressed, guys. Definitely distressed. And it's not a problem that it's distressed. It's just not turnkey. And honestly, they don't really play by different rules when they are distressed. It's still loosely 70% of what the property is listed for. But we're going to go into the comping process. Here we go. Okay, you see this property? That's truly turnkey. It's truly turnkey. [snorts] Okay, so this next part is where it gets a little bit hairy. None of this stuff is like firm fact. As I said, 70 80 maybe even 90% of the time you can ensure that these are going to sell. But you could get this under contract today. Man, this this takes like four or five phone calls. So, looking at a deal like this, I know this is a deal at 70K. I know it is. I know nothing about this property, but if you got this for 70, it's a deal. And you can be safe like that. But how many people are going to say yes to that? Okay, actually, probably quite a bit. you just have to make a ton of phone calls. Sometimes you can look at a property like this and say, you know, maybe I could get it for 80 or even $90,000. But I want to say if it's a turnkey section 8 deal, the price really should never be over $85,000. Your cash flow just gets thin beyond that point. People are looking for a 20% cash on cash return, and that is hard to find with a single family turnkey property above 85,000. So guys, the lower the price point, the better as long as it's still turnkey for this type of deal. So I can definitively say that $70,000 would be a deal on this because it's a significant discount. But your question is, well, how far do I have to offer below list? Um, it's not an exact science, but let's see what we can figure out. First things first, how much does this rent out for? Remember, don't spend a ton of time like figuring out your offer. It's more important that you talk to a lot of people than make a perfect offer. Yeah, man. Okay, so here's the thing. This thing is only renting out for $1,100. That's not that much money, guys. It really isn't. So, you know, if you wanted to get a deal on this, it it might be worth this amount to somebody who wants to live in the property and based on the neighborhood, but to an investor, I mean, it's just not that great. And I'll try to show you why it's not that great at this price point. Let me go to my offer oven right here, which you guys all have access to. They're asking 120,000. I'm going to be required to put down 20%. So, what is that? 24 grand. Yeah, it's it's $24,000. Um, I'm getting a probably a 7% interest rate right now. 30-year amortization. This should always be 30. And then I need my taxes and insurance. My taxes and insurance are 87 and 40, but probably like 150. So, let's add this all up. I've got my 639. 639. I've got my 100. and I've got my 50 for taxes and insurance. Okay, so guys, this is what your deal looks like. You're paying $7.90 or $800 per month and you're renting it out for $1,100. But remember, guys, investors are taking 20% off the top. So, it's kind of like this. You you make $8.80 per month and you spend 790. So, what are you making? 90 bucks per month for your down payment of 24 grand plus four or five for closing. Guys, you're dropping close to 30 grand for 100 bucks per month. That's not a good return on investment. Alternatively, as I said, if you got this at $70,000, your down payment goes way down. Now, you only have to put 14K down. Your payment's 372 plus your 150. Let's do that again. 372 + 150. It's going to be 522 and it's going to rent for 1,100. It's It's still not that great, but your entry is pretty low, so it might be okay. So, you're bringing in 880 and then you're going to be subtracting your 522 monthly payment or PITI. Okay? So, you make 358 bucks after all expenses. We multiply that by 12. It's probably going to be about $4,000 of income per year. And your total cost of investment is going to be 14 plus call it five for closing cost. So, maybe 19. This should be above 20% if this is going to work. That works. That works. Guys, keep in mind I didn't add on my assignment fee, so it just barely works. But, you know, looking at this one, guys, this probably should be a $70,000 offer, and that's going to be hard to get. So, maybe say, "Look, man, um, I'd have to be at 70 based on what your house rents out for. But alternatively, what if we look at 140K, 150K over a 72-month period of time on financing terms. You can always make that offer as well. Let's look at one more turnkey house, but let's go a little bit cheaper this time. So, okay. So, here's here's something to note. You see how this is a 21? your rent is drastically lower on a 21 it might not even be worth it for a cash offer. Like it's it's you'd have to get this so far below list price for this to be a deal. Um but you can creative finance a 21 no problem because then you set your own payments and what it brings in doesn't really matter. Um how how low can we get? Everything is listed for like 119 120 here. How how low does it get while still being a decent property? Okay.$114,000. I love these cheap little fix and flips. I'm flipping properties now. It's just it's just such a so easy. It makes so much sense for somebody to buy something like that. Um, let's keep looking. Where does it end? When when do the turnkey homes start to become not turnkey? I think we're almost there, guys. I think we're almost there. Yeah. I want to say like 110. I want to say like 110. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. maybe about 110K. You know, I kind of like this one, guys. It gives off the vibe of turnkey. And I say gives off the vibe because you never really know. You know, this thing's just been lived in. Um, and it's a four bed, one bath with with a decent amount of square feet. So, it might rent out for more than the last one despite being cheaper. Let's check it out. Yeah. You know, that's just kind of rough. And if you're wondering like, Richard, why aren't you looking at the section 8 website? I can look at the section 8 website, but a lot of the times the rents paid by the section 8 website, which is this website right here, they're kind of exaggerating. You know, section 8 would have us believing that this thing would bring in like 14,500 per month, but when you actually go to the section 8 department and say, "Hey, how much can I get?" They're going to be like 1,200, 1100. So, like, you know, it's it's just uh it's it's not a perfect rule of thumb. You still want to get a significant discount. Let's check out one more city where these turnkey homes exist. Um, where do I really like to do this? You know, Cleveland's always really good. Cleveland's always really good. Akan's always really good. Not very much inventory in Akran. Detroit is pretty great, too. I I like Detroit, man. I'm flipping a house in Detroit right now. Let's do We're doing the same thing. Price high to low. Where do the turnkey houses end here? Let's go to page four. The turnkey houses. Oh, wow. There's a lot of houses in Detroit, man. Page seven. Jeez. You see, you just never run out of inventory doing what I'm doing. This is insane. This is insane. By the way, don't sleep on multifamilies for what I just talked about. Multif family is like more desirable than single family. So, exact same principle applies. 70% of list price, but increases your chances of it selling. So, wow. We're in Detroit right now and they just the houses just keep going and going and going. Look at that's a 41 right there for 99K. Cool. Uh, checking the interior. Just refinish the floors. Yeah. Whoa. Paint. Paint and refinish the floors. You know, I I might offer a little lower on list price because this thing is clearly going to need some work. But all of these things can be deals. Really? All of these can be deals. Um I want to say I want to say the turnkey houses are still Yeah, they're still going. Wow. So, this would be a great rental right here. This thing is fully done up. It It just needs nothing. It looks great. Awesome work to the flipper here. [snorts] It's been there for 34 days. I don't exactly know why. Let's check the rent. See what this thing rents out for. This is the last turn key we look at and then we'll start looking at distressed. I I like distressed more. If I were to give you a piece of advice, I'd say go distressed. Lip bite. Yes. Yes. This is heat, dude. You see that 1,300 bucks per month? Considering what we were getting in Memphis, this is really nice. That's really good. That Yeah. Yeah. Um it's just a much better deal at asking price. I mean, 99K for $300 more per month. That's really good, and you'll see why right now. So, it's probably close to 20% cash on cash return at the asking price. Probably close. Does that mean you can offer the asking price? Oh my god, I wish I could shake you through your screen and say, "Do not offer asking price." Oh, the amount of times you guys come to me and you're like, "Richard, I have a deal. It's listed at 100 and I got them to agree to 97." We got to get a discount, guys. So, we got to get a discount. You just You just have to It's the It's the law of the land. Okay, so $99,000, right? God, I'm so excited for this course to come out, guys. I just get so excited about this stuff because you could call this guy, offer him like 70k, and if they say yes, you're going to make like 78K on this thing just because it's already close to a deal at list price. Okay. So, so 20% down, that's what the buyer would have to put down, right? And that's that's about a little bit more than So, maybe like 198. Yeah, just about 20%. Um 520 527 bucks per month. M um and then your taxes and insurance in Detroit. I happen to know as a homeowner in Detroit that this is cap um or false. It's probably a little higher. Probably closer to like 250 250 for taxes and insurance. We'll we'll call it 225. Okay. Um always inflate your numbers. you know, be be more so on the side of pessimism, offering steeper than like, oh, well, maybe I can offer that. Stop. Always offer below where you think you need to be. Okay, that's going to make your conversion rate closer to the 80% than like the 60% that we talked about, right? So, it's kind of in your hands. I know we can get trigger happy here, but it is what it is. Okay, so what do we have in payments here? We got the 527. By the way, this calculator is in the Discord. Just type hashtag calculator 527 and then you got that 220 that we talked about 225 just call it okay cool 752 um and then you're going to be renting out for 1300 so 1300*8 for vacancy management capex whatever it may be great and then subtract the 752 great so you're making 280 bucks a month at asking price it's much better than the last deal right we were making 80 bucks a month at asking price in the last deal um and we inflated the taxes insurance. Multiply that by 12. Yearly, you're making 3,400. Um, what does it cost to buy? 198 down, five for closing. Call it 25K. 24800, right? Yeah, man. 13.9%. Not a good return. Um, but but but given that that's their asking price return, that's not bad. That's not bad. Again, guys, 70% of list price, it it just works. There's there's just not much of a comping process here. I guess we can run it at 70% of list price. Again, um this is more so about your rents than comps. We're not I'm not I'm not really thinking about, well, what did the neighbor's house sell for? That's more of a fix and flip thing. This is like a section 8 rental thing, turnkey thing. And it's I I don't like this as much as I like the distressed section 8 because those guys are going through hardship. They're much more likely to say yes. And then, oh my god, you can see how much more money the flipper is going to make. That's about comping. distress section 8 about comping. This is more so what is my down payment? What is my monthly payment? What is my rent? What is my return? How far am I below list? That's what's important here. Um so again, you get this at 70. It's a deal. There's it just you start to know. You just start to know. And you're like, well, would 71 work? Yeah, 71 would work. Would 75 work? Probably pro probably. But you know, then now we're like 60% likelihood, right? So maybe 70K is like 80% likelihood. Maybe 75, like 70 or 60% likelihood, right? This is not an exact science. Don't put too much thought into it if you're going to do this, but let's run it really quick. Okay, now let's do 75. Okay, let's do 75 because that's just not that far below list. [snorts] Um, down payment on this, what is that? 15 grand. Yeah, 15K. Cool. Monthly payment 400 plus our 225 plus the 225. Cool. 625. Um, we're looking at 1300 *8. We're going to subtract our 625 mortgage payment. This is at 75K. I'd prefer to get it at 70K. But remember, if you get this at 75, the buyer is going to pay 78 to 80. If you get it at 70, the buyer is paying 72 to 73 to 75, right? So, multiply that by 12. This is your net cash flow. Um, making five per year. Nice. Um, and then you've got the 15 + 5 for closing costs, right? Um, so that's going to be about 20 grand. There's a 25% cash on cash return. That's a deal. At at 75, that's a deal. How sure am I that that's a deal? About 70%. And that's why I've been focusing on creative finance for a while. It's easy. This is so easy. Remember, we had the 12-year-old do it. But at the end of the day, it's a bigger trigger to pull than a creative finance deal. And yeah, it makes sense to get 25% on your money, but the deals and the numbers show us that this is not always going to sell. Where would I say 100% this is a deal? Without a doubt, I will put my life on the line that that's a deal. 60. It's too good at 60. It's It's just It's just too good that I I will put my life on the line that this is a deal at 60. $12,000 down. But you'll see it's kind of hard to get that accepted. It's only 12K down. Oh my god, your payment's low. 319 this time. Run it one more time. 319 225. Okay. Uh then we got the this minus this minus that 544. Dude, you're making 500 bucks for a 12K down payment. 17K with closing cost. So multiply that by 12. Uh cool. 5,952. Awesome. Uh, and then we're going to go ahead and divide that by our total cost of entry, which is 17K. So, so this is just that's 35% on your money. That's disgusting. Yes, definitively a deal at that price. So, yeah. Uh, probably a deal at 75K. Likely a deal at 70. 100% a deal at 60. You start starting to understand what I'm saying? Good. Okay. Now, let's do this with distressed houses. This is I love this guys. I love this. Um I'm going to start with a real life example on the distressed houses. Um we'll look at a real life example. So I just bought two of these. Um I just bought two wrecked houses. I call them ship boxes. So 1618 Katalpa. Um at the time of this video, this is my house in Cleveland. Um and then I just bought one in Michigan, right? I bought this yesterday. 13605 Tacoma Street in Detroit. Okay, cool. So you'll notice that they're both multifamilies. Well, this one says single family, but zoom in. Previous two family. I'm converting this from a single family back to a duplex. Okay. Um, so guys, again, the rule is roughly the same. 70% of list price. Uh, a guy from Kenya got this property under contract for 58K. They said yes. Uh, I picked it up off of him. Easy money right there. He he lives in Nairobi, Kenya. Um, he just called the realtor and made the offer and we're good to go. Um, this is more of a science. So, I like this model more because it's technically flipping. You know, it's just we're we're technically flipping these houses. But the thing is, sometimes people will renovate and hold, which is called the burr strategy. Buy, renovate, refinance, repeat. Burr. It's a real estate investing strategy as old as time. So, these could these could be fix and flips and these could be rental properties. Either or. The process is the same to get there. And you have to comp them out to figure out where you need to be on these. So, we're going to comp out my two properties. Um, this one was listed at 75. We got it at 47. Um, $3,000 check right there for Michael out of Hold My Hand Who Wholesale. He told me he made one call. One call and he got it. Easy, right? Um, this one I bought yesterday, so it's still on market. It's going to be a little bit easier to see. Let's zoom in. Okay, so this is approximately where the house is. It's going to say pending. So, we have to click pending to see it. There it is. Cool. Cool. Now, here's something I really really liked about this. So, you know how I got this for 58. Um, I don't have photos of the interior. It's distressed, but it's not that bad. Like, it's actually okay. It's it's it's like one of those houses like, okay, it needs a little bit of work. Um, but for a higher price, also a similar multif family with less beds and baths. Look at this. This guy's for sale at 60. I got mine for 58. and you could live in mine as it sits now. It's just not super great on the inside. So, yeah, you know, this is an indicator that you have a pretty good deal when the other properties around it are like way more expensive and way worse condition. Uh, but here's how we know. Here's how we know. Now, this one, this flip that I'm doing right here, it was, as I as I seem to remember, the comps were good, but they weren't amazing. But on this one, the comps are strong. Very strong comps. And then I got so many more to show you, but we should stick on we should stick at these two. There's there's just so many addresses floating around in my mind that I could show you guys right now. So, let's let's draw around the neighborhood, right? We're kind of in the middle of two neighborhoods. So, we're going to draw kind of wide, but remember, we're putting a higher emphasis on properties that are closer to where we are. I call that our subject property, the property that we're looking at. So, see how it's roughly in the center, right? That's what you want. Um, but remember, the closer the better. So, um, first things first, it is important to see the photos of this. I asked the agent to send me a walkthrough. Um, she did, and it it came out to be about a 30k rehab, which is not terrible. Next, I'm going to click sold because, guys, you can list a property for any price over here, right? Doesn't mean it's worth that price. Sales mean that it's worth that price. So, let's click on sold. See what we can find. Remember, we're a single family, but it's being converted into a multif family. So, let's comp similar properties. comping comparable properties. So, multif family. Cool. And this is why I was saying that your comps were just not like immensely strong. When did this guy sell? Sold sold in February. Okay, cool. So, I'm going to go ahead and look. He's kind of far away. He's a little bit far away. Um, so I'm going to go ahead and price these things high to low. But, um, first things first, let's make note of what we are. What are we guys? What is the property? Well, Zillow has decided to hide it. Okay. It's cuz we were on multif family. Okay. So, it's a it's a 73, right? Or 72 and a half. 2,000 square ft from 1922. So, we should comp with properties that are hopefully also this layout. As a duplex, it's going to be four beds, one bath on one side and four beds or three beds, one and a half bath on the other side. Um, which is good because this website, section 8, pays significantly higher for I should probably show you guys. Huh. I'll show you right now. Actually, it's really easy to show you. So, check it out. The the more beds the better. Bathrooms don't matter, but if you go to MI, Michigan, Wayne County for Detroit, Wayne County for Detroit, and then if you go to this zip code, this is what you get for a three bed, right? Three bed, two bed, sorry. That's what you get for a two-bedroom. And look how much more you get for a three. Isn't that a pretty big increase? and then that much more for a four as well. So the more bedrooms you have, the more money you're going to be making on the Section 8 housing website if you decide to go that route. Remember, they kind of like to lowball us, but generally speaking, you will be making more than normal rent with section 8. [snorts] So yeah, we should comp with simble we should comp with similar properties, guys. Let's see what we can find. And I know there's not a whole lot of comps, but there are some really good things here. So, if you click sold and you filter for just the multif family and you price high to low, wow, am I bigger than this property? Yes. Do I have more beds than this property? Yes. Do I have more bathrooms in this property? Yes. Will I sell as much as this property is sold for? No. Why? Why? I mean, that doesn't make sense. Well, you got to understand this is a retail flip. Everything about this property is retail. Like, when you look at this, they did a great job. the little rocks right here. This is for somebody to live in. Maybe they could rent it out, but you know, it's probably for somebody to live in. So, you know, it this would suggest that my after repair value is 200k. Why? I'm bigger. I have more beds. I have more baths. I rent out for more. And it's literally my neighbor's house. You see how close that is to me? I'm right here. They're right here. It's literally a block and a half away. That's a That's a comp, guys. But another reason why it's not a comp is 1943. We're 1922. You got a comp within 10 years, 15 years max. So, not exactly a comp, right guys? Um and and looking at the rest of these, let's go ahead and price them high to low. Um you've got this guy for 180 grand. Uh this looks like a quadplex. Maybe it's a duplex. I don't really know, but it's definitely not what we are. Definitely not what we are. This is what we are right here. Right. Um this is 1929. We're 1922. It's a 42. We're a 73. So, where does that put my ARV? Yeah, just just not an exact science, guys. Not an exact science. Um, but think about it. I generate significantly more income. I have more space, right? Um, I would imagine for the income that I generate, a 20k increase is justified, right? So, my my my buddy who who owns a lot in Detroit told me I should list this property for 150. I like to be competitive. I'm going to go 1399, right, guys? So, so look, 42 duplex, 120k, 22 duplex. Remember how much less 2s generate? 22 duplex for 115k. Your built's kind of a problem though, right? So, yeah, you know, looking at the comps here, at least 130, right? At least 130. But I happen to believe 139, 140, especially because of my cash on cash return. The cash on cash return that we provide is ridiculous. I mean, imagine this, guys. Remember, we talked about this. This is my finished product. It's ideally for an investor. So, listed for 140. Let's say they pay 140. You put $28,000 down. You get a 7% interest rate. That's your monthly payment. You go on the section 8 website. What are you renting out for? Well, you got 1590 and 1720. Let's say they lowball us on both of these. Let's say they lowball this guy to 1250. And then let's say they low lowball this guy to 1400. So, let's go 1250 and 1400. This is theoretically what I could be bringing in. $2,600. Remember, we still multiply by 08. That brings me down to 21,100. What's my payment? 745. Dude, you see how crazy of an investment this is? 745. 1375 net cash flow. Being ultra pessimistic. I lowballed my rental figures and I took another 20% off the top. Guys, that's crazy. Did I miss something? Yeah, I did. I didn't do my taxes and insurance, did I? Yeah, no taxes and insurance. We got to take off the 250. Remember Detroit 250. Okay, there you go. So, that's your net figure. Oops. I make mistakes, too. Multiply that by 12, right? This is what you're making yearly. It's unbelievable. And then how how much does it cost to buy this? 28 + 5 for closing, 33. Remember, 20% is what they're looking for, 40%. So, how can I justify 140K? Well, you've got 170k sale in the neighborhood and 180k sale in the neighborhood and you've got a plethora of 120s and we're bigger than the 120s with more beds. Hence, 140 is what I think my ARV is. Others may argue higher, and I can totally see the angle for that, but this is a hell of an investment package that I'm putting together for a real estate investor. Even if we got normal rents on this at at 1,100 per side, which is a very low figure for rents, it's still a 25% cash on cash return. So yeah, um the house was listed for 89. It's not worth 89. It's worth closer to Well, I I I think it's probably worth closer to 70, but we got it for 58. And uh yeah, it it it ended up being a deal and a guy from Kenya got it for me. I'm trying to think what else I should let you know about. Um how about my angle of things? I'm flipping it, right? How much am I going to make? Here are my fees, guys. Pick it up for 585. Paid the wholesaler 1,500 bucks. Um I've got $2,500 in origination fees. that is um the the the cost of the lender giving me a loan origination, right? Uh and then I have closing costs for 2500. So together closing costs are 5K, but we they are split into those two different parts. It's all one bill though. Um and then I've got my rehab budget. I got 30K lended to me for the rehab on this thing. And now I'm in it for 95, right? Oh, and then I had to pay $1,000 of the realtor's commission because she tried to sneak it in there and I just kind of ate it. But uh 96,000 is what I'm all in for. Um selling for 140. My realtor is going to take 6%. I walk with 131. Um, I subtract my 985. Why 985? Monthly premiums of having the hard money loan out, right? Subtract my 985. Great. So, this is going to take me about a month. Uh, maybe maybe maybe a month and a half. I'm going to probably do a total of three hours of work for the fix and flip. I should make $33,000. It's pretty cool, right? But let's say it doesn't sell. I can always refinance, guys. I can always refinance. Remember, if your house is worth 140, you can take out 75% of that. That's more than I owe the lender, right? So, if it doesn't sell because, I don't know, maybe there's a lot of crime there or whatever it is. I can refinance it and I can rent it out myself and I can make that $1,000 a month of extra income. I don't want to do that. I want the 33k, but that would actually save my ass if it didn't sell. So, yeah. Uh, let's look at one more distressed one before we um I guess we can identify a couple, right? We can we can comp a couple. Um, this is great and and and I like this, but there's an even better one. So, um, we have another one under contract right now. We haven't closed yet, but we're about to close. So, so I'll just tell you about this one. Um, the ARV is 140. We picked it up for 47, right? Easy. Um, but I want to show you this other one. Park View. This this this I love Park View. You see, we're pending. We're under contract right now. Um, I got this guy for 68. Not a wholesalable discount, but it's a great flip. It's a great flip. So, so the the buyer needs to get it at 68. So, if you're going to wholesale this, you should get it at 65. But that is the low end of offers, guys. You really should be steeper if you want to be closer to the 80% close rate. Like, guys, I I cannot stress enough. getting a house 15k below list. You've barely done anything. I can do it cuz I'm the buyer, right? It doesn't matter. Um just for context purposes, guys, right? Um 2235 Berry Drive, Jacksonville, Florida. So 2235 South Berry Drive, Jacksonville, Florida. This is this this is to show you what you can do. Guys, this thing was listed for 199. They said yes to 37. Okay, so I know you're like, "Well, why would they say yes to that? We're in an inventory crisis and not an inventory crisis where there's not enough houses. An inventory crisis where there's not enough buyers in more houses than we've ever seen on the market ever before. So, yeah, the inventory crisis means that sellers can't find buyers, meaning that we can lowball them, right? We can just get these for crazy good prices. So, that's what happened here. This is a $53,000 deal. We made 53 grand off of a phone call on this house. This is hard to get and also less likely to sell if you get a normal discount. So, I don't typically go for things like this, but it does happen. You know, we got this deal in Orlando yesterday. It was listed for $310,000. Student got it for $1.98. Great. Excellent. How do they do that? I don't know. I don't know. Only an $11,000 assignment fee, though. So, so, so that's why I don't go after the expensive ones, guys, because you're less likely to get a yes. Less likely to find a buyer. The fees are often bigger, but just this time they weren't. So, yeah. Anyways, back to this one that we were looking at just now. I got this for 68. If you were going to wholesale it, you really should get it for 60. You really should get this for 60. Seller can't accept 60 because of their mortgage balance. You know what to do there, don't you? If you don't, take the mortgage takeover course. Take the mortgage takeover course. So, so excited for this project, man. So excited for this project. It's so good. Let's draw around this general vicinity. This I I can't wait to show you this deal, guys, because this you just know it's a deal. You just know. So, if we go from for sale to sold, um, oh, we got to take note of what we are. Remember, we got to know what we are. What are we, right? I'm talking about the house. Well, we are a 192542. Okay. And we're a duplex. 192542. I can't believe this. Here's a 53 for 224. And somebody's buying it. This is why I wanted to show you this. It's just like, oh my god. Oh my god. Our ARV is not that high, but it's up there. It's really, really up there. So, you go from uh for sale to sold, right? Um price these high to low. Are we a 42? Yeah, we are. But this feels fishy, guys. Doesn't this feel fishy to you? No. Our ARV is not 300K. No. Um so, I don't trust that. Um this is also not what we are. Not what we are. This is probably a package. That deal that we just looked at, this deal is probably both of these houses. Maybe even a piece of land, too. So, don't trust that. Um this I also don't trust. It's distressed and sold for 185. Fake. Um, let's put in a date filter. Okay. Date 12 months. Um, all right. Let's look at some things that I do trust. This that's damn near us. It's a duplex. It's a 52. We're a 42. Um, it's built in 1900. When were we built? 1920. I don't know. But not too far from here. But ideally, we should be a little bit closer. But this is great. This is really good. Um, and then what else do we have? We got this guy right here. This is literally us. This is exactly us. It's perfect. It It's just It's just This is exactly what we're looking for. So, your ARV without a doubt is 140K, if not higher. Let's see what else we can find. Are we priced high to low? Yeah. What's this? That just Oh, shoot. I guess I Oh, it's a quadplex. It's a quadplex. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Um, so 167, 140, 135, 135, 135. I mean, the this is this is these are all great great great comps. I like this one because of how many examples there are of what we could be, right? This guy's not even renovated. You can tell by the photo, right? You can like zooming in, you can see it's not renovated, right? There's all kinds of things going on with this property. It sold for 135. So, our ARV minimum minimum is going to be 140 if not more. And we're bigger than a lot of these properties, right? So, yeah, we got it for 68. Let's do the math. 68 grand. Rehab's only 25K on this. Um, but you also have your closing costs and origination fees, which I'm adding in right here. Um, now you're in it for 98K and your ARV is 140. Similar numbers to mine, right? You're going to make out like a bandit. You're going to make 30 racks. And guys, the contractors do all of this stuff. It's it's very passive for me. 3 hours of work just keeping up with the contractors, right? That's your cash course. Loosely hit people with 70% of what they're listed for. Don't be, you know, definitely check your rents when you're doing turnkey. Something that rents for 1,100, 60K, something that rents for 1,200, 65K, something that rents for, 1300, 70 to 75K, right? You really shouldn't be getting these for 85K. If it's a multif family though and it's turnkey, that's a different story. Okay, so yeah. Um, you can do it on nice houses, you can do it on rough houses, you should make sure that you're in a major city. If you're like, well, I don't know where to look. Dude, remember you got buy box cartel. We got our buy boxes posted right here. You know, you can go to byboxcartel.com and you can go ahead and you can click on buy boxes and you can see where people pick these up. section 8 buyers. See this? Like I said, right, those are the areas we want to find deals. You can put these into buy box cartel and it will spit out an offer for you and and that's all well and good. Um, but I really think it's important for you to manually be able to do the work, too. Um, oh, when somebody says yes to your offer, all you need to you're going to sign the contract. The contract comes from the realtor, right? So, this individual right here on this listing agreement, Eric, Eric would send you the contract. Um, all you need to tell Eric is, "Hey, Eric, I need a seven business day inspection period. Minimum five business days, but ideally seven. And I need my uh earnest money to be submitted after my inspection period." Everything else is fine. No, your contract does not need to be assignable. We can double close it if it's not assignable. So, yeah, guys, go attack some of the lowest hanging fruit in real estate, you know, and when you when you have a little bit of money saved up, you know, come back to my live stream and say, "Richard, now how do I flip the next one?" because we also talk a lot about that. But I get it. I get it. You don't have the money for the down payment yet. Let's build that money by sourcing a deal for a real estate investor. Got it. Got it. You're going to crush it. I believe in you. Make sure to make some calls. Bye-bye.