<!-- PROVENANCE: HMHW Fix & Flip Course | YouTube wVRe2r22C6U | auto-captions via yt-dlp, ingested 2026-06-14. CANONICAL HMHW. -->

# Fix & Flip Course — transcript (YouTube auto-captions)

the longawwaited fix and flip course. Guys, I'm just going to wing this. I've never filmed a fix and flip course before. But honestly, I've done three or four of them. Now, I've got some checks from the from the flips. We've got a $66,000 check, a $44,000 check, and a $25,000 check. And I'm just going to break down everything I've learned for you so that hopefully you can do the same. Um I'll talk about why I'm so obsessed with this as of late as well. So, wholesaling is great, and these are wholesale checks, but it's important to note that wholesaling is active income. And one would think, well, isn't flipping active income as well? Don't you have to like be on site and and do the work and and make the calls? No, not really. In fact, I I recently posted one of my calls start to finish. It kind of goes like this. Hey, I'm calling about your listing on 123 Main Street. Can I send my contractor there? Because in flipping, you send your contractor to the property first. Don't worry, we'll talk about how to get a contractor. The agent's like, "Yeah, you can send your contractor there. There's a lockbox code on the MLS. Usually the agent can just let you in and uh your contractor assesses how much the rehab is and then you make your offer based off of that. And the cool thing about flipping is the deals are deals closer to list price. I mean with wholesaling, you're used to getting properties under contract at 70% of what they're listed for so that you can sell it to a flipper who can then make money. Um and you're trying to stack as much of a fee as you possibly can in wholesale. But in flipping um you know I'm buying these things 15 20k below list. Um, sometimes only 15K below list, maybe even 12K below list. I'm actually kind of nervous to admit that I am buying a house, uh, Merlin Street in Detroit right now, 12,500 below list price, but it's a deal. It's a, you know, I would have liked to get a little lower, but it's a deal. It works. Um, so I do this virtually. I know nothing about construction. I've never known anything about construction. I My contractor does everything for me. And, um, I don't have to spend any of my own money. My profit figures are anywhere between $30,000 low-end all the way up to like 60 or $70,000 on a single family, maybe even h 100,000. I I haven't gotten there yet, but I have done 66,000. You can do this anywhere. Um I don't care what state you're in, but I do think that you should stay in kind of a lower price point state. Um there's a big problem with high interest rates right now, and it means that people who are trying to buy 400k houses, a lot of the times they don't have the income necessary to buy that 400k house. So, I love to stay in after repair value price points of like a4 million or below that, like maybe $200,000 or $150,000. And we'll look at some deals and I'll find a deal and I'll I'll show you exactly how to make the offer, find the contractor, I have your lender already. Um, but before we jump into that, the rehab money, because that's probably something that you're worried about. What about the purchase price? How do you buy the property? And what about the rehab money? Well, one of these checks is for $24,500. Check it out. There is a $24,000 check. Now, did I get this from flipping the house? No, I didn't. Actually, when I closed on the property, my lender sent me $24,000 to renovate. Isn't that unbelievable? I got paid to buy the property. Like, sure, it's not profit. I'm not going to keep that money, but my account went up when I bought the property instead of going down as I am so used to it doing. Gosh, I'm just so excited about this, guys. I I I can't contain myself. You mean to tell me that I don't have to live there? I don't have to know about construction. And I don't have to have the purchase price. I don't have to have the rehab money. And then eventually I'll just get paid to buy these things. Yes. Yes. I I don't come out of pocket for my fix and flips, guys. Like it it is fully free for me. And I can't believe I'm saying that, but that's the nature of hard money loans. They're not LTV, they're LTC, loan to cost. And and and the difference is loan to value is your loan proportionate to the purchase price. But this covers the full purchase price and the full rehab, which we refer to as percentage of LTC. you get the money up front to renovate the house. Now, there is a bit of a catch and um I should let you know about it. And that catch is you will not have my terms starting out. When you flip houses, they're not going to give you 100% LTC. They're going to give you 90%. They're going to give you 100% of the purchase price and 90% of the rehab or 90% of the purchase price, 100% of the rehab. And you'll have to come up with the difference. What is the difference? Like a singular assignment fee, guys. Actually, this one is $15,000. It was just split up into two checks. This is a $15,000 assignment fee. So, our average assignment fee is $8,000. We frequently see $15 to $25,000 checks. Now, that would be enough money for you to flip a house. And the cool thing is when you're getting one of those assignment fees, you're learning the process of flipping. Like, you're learning the acquisitions because you're going through the process of acquiring the property, calling the realtor, and then you're getting paid for that without actually having to flip the house. So, in Hold My Hand Who Wholesale, we have a bit of a trajectory for you. I want you to do a couple wholesale deals. Once you've got like 15, 20K saved up, great. Let's flip a house. turn your 1520 into 60 and then let's buy a rental property and then let's flip another house and let's buy another rental property and then let's quit our job. Right? So you're you're not going to get the same terms. You're going to have to come up with 5 to 10%. The lender is in the Discord under #private money loans and we're actually adding a number of lenders so that you can compare terms, but roughly you'll spend 5 to 10K on your first flip. Something interesting though, something I'll tell you. Um when I did my first fix and flip, I got 100% LTC and I had never done a fix and flip before. They thought I had done fix and flips because I had been making content for a long time and I had tons and tons and tons of videos about real estate, but I'd never done one before. They're just like, "Oh, yeah, great. You're established on social media. Sure, we'll give you 100%." And I kind of skipped the line in that sense. However, having to come up with 5 to 10K, you know, it's not the end of the world, especially given our average assignment fee size, especially given that foreign people and and 12y olds are doing deals. So, you've got this in the back. Anyways, um on to the actual deal itself. So now um this portion of the course I'm going to jump into a couple of the deals that I've done and why I'm doing those deals. Um and then we're going to go ahead and find one for you guys um so that you can repeat the process. So um let's talk about the ones that I've flipped and what I've learned from that. Um this was my first flip um officially. I I guess [snorts] I've accidentally flipped houses in the past, but this was my first intentional flip. Now I don't think we can actually find photos of the interior, so we'll have to go off of the street view to kind of understand what this property looked like. Um, this thing I found it on Zillow. Actually, I didn't find it on Zillow. A guy in Nairobi, Kenya found it for me on Zillow. I paid up an assignment fee. Even more so speaking to the fact that you can get this done. House is listed for 90K. Bro gets it for 58. Stellar. Awesome. Perfect. Um, we love that. House needed like $45,000 of rehab. I did not think it needed 45. I thought it needed closer to like 30. Um, however, in this process, I found out that even if your siding is functional and even if your roof is functional, you can't leave it. You can't just leave it. So, let's check out the property, guys. This wa Oh my god, look at the gentrification here. So, this is this was the street previously. You can see this photos from 2022, right? And then you go back a little bit. Wow. Completely different area, right? All the houses are nice again. Well, okay. This is what the house looked like when I got it. The roof is functional. The siding was functional, but it was ugly. And I was just sort of under the impression that you could just leave it like that because it works. It's not leaking. You could just make the interior pretty and it would be good enough. That's not the case. People don't want to buy it if it looks ugly. So, I I kind of messed up there and that was a $20,000 oopsies. Anyways, I bought this thing for 60K. I paid him a $1,500 assignment fee. There wasn't a whole lot of room in the deal. And something that I learned is that you don't you don't want to do what I did on this. This thing is a seven bed um two full bath in Detroit and it says this is a previous two family. Now it's one. So I was thinking to myself, oh if it used to be a duplex, it can probably be a duplex again, especially cuz it has 2 meters right there. So I converted it back. That was a mess and that was a mistake and my contractor warned me, but because I didn't know him at the time, I did it anyways. And it just caused a lot of issues. So um if it's a single family, keep it as a single family. If it's a duplex, keep it as a duplex. Um, and we'll talk about when to flip both of those different types of assets because they are a little bit different. One of them is more about your cash on cash return for the end buyer and if they buy it at this price, what return do they get? And the other one's really just about how pretty it is. So, [sighs] we did the floors, we did the siding, we did the roof, we had our furnaces stolen. Another important lesson that I learned here is don't put in your mechanicals until closing day. Tell your buyer, "Hey, the mechanicals are out." I'm talking about HVAC and furnace, water heater, that sort of stuff. The mechanicals are out of the property. they will be put in the property the day of closing because people broke into this house three times and they stole my furnace and they stole my water heater and they they they just they continuously broke in the property. So, I learned I've learned my lesson. If we're flipping in one of these low-inccome markets, nothing can be in the house. Not materials, not anything. People will break in and they will steal things. Another thing that I learned is if you're doing this in the wintertime, like if you're doing this anywhere between um November to February, stuff moves slow. Like stuff moves really slow. Like real estate slows down on the buying side, real estate slows down on the um on the selling side as well. And the construction massively slows. So, um it's not to say that you shouldn't do this during the the winter time, but you should anticipate for a longer fix and flip process. Whereas, if you're doing it spring, summer, fall, it's just quick, quick, quick. Just gets done like that. Um, so yeah, I learned a lot on this one. Um, the check that I received was for $44,000. It's right here. Um, however, that wasn't my net profit, guys. I I'll show you my net profit. You know, um, I bought the thing for $60,000. That's including my assignment fee. I had about 5,000 in closing costs. I had about I don't know, maybe 3,500 in holding costs. Those are costs while my loan is out, interest payments. I didn't make those payments. Those payments were simply put on the back end of my loan. And that will probably be the case for you as well. My rehab initially was, I think, [snorts] $28,000, but then I had to put another 20,000 into the deal. So, I was in it for like a total of um maybe $116,000. And then I think the breakins caused me to put another four or or $8,000 into the property. So I might have been in this deal all in for like $124 123,000 and then I ended up selling it for $146. So yeah, you know, I only made like 20some,000, but a win is a win. We'll take it. And I learned a lot of lessons and I think a lot of that could have been avoided. Um immediately after that, I acquired this property, 11461 Sanford Street. Now I don't think I have any photos of the interior of this. Um but I really liked this one, guys. Um, one of the reasons I really liked this property was that um, the roof looked like it could be salvaged. I think that we need some shingle work, but we had no siding. There's not going to be any siding issues now, right? This is a brick house, so there's not going to be any siding issues. I thought the area looked nice. I think it's a fine area. I don't think anybody would have a problem living here. Yeah, this is a this is about a $28,000 rehab. This is about a $28,000 rehab. This is this is going to be my best deal yet, guys. I'm really excited about this one. Um, so what did I buy it for? I bought it for $57,000. no assignment fee. I acquired it myself. Here's the thing. When you ask your lender for rehab money, like they're going to say, "Hey, how much money do you need to renovate this property?" Um, in my experience, closing costs come out of the rehab money, which doesn't make a lot of sense, but that's just sort of how it is. So, I, for example, on my first one, Tacoma Street, I asked for $28,000 and I got like 21. And I was like, "What? Where's the rest of my rehab money?" And that would have been a problem if I didn't have that remaining money to finish the project. Um, fortunately I did. So I've learned now that um, hey, ask for $4 or $5,000 more than you need and really maybe $10,000 than you need, right? Because in addition to closing costs coming out of the rehab money, um, we also see random things come up. So for example, yesterday on this property, we found out that the windows need new framing. And, you know, that's going to be another $5,000 or so. Um, so $57,000 was my acquisition's price. Um, this one had heightened closing costs for some reason. there were like blight fees or something going on with. So, I paid 6K in closing cost. My holding cost will be minimal, probably 2,000 since I only acquired this. So, I bought this thing a month ago. Holding costs will really only be 2,000. And I asked for 28 on the rehab, but I only got 245. So, so you know, my some of my closing costs came out of that and I and it or the lender fees, whatever it may have been. And I ended up walking away with, you know, $3,500 less than I asked for. So, I'm in it for $93,000. That's my all-in. Um, and I've already pre-sold it to one of my buyers, and we can do the same for you guys. Um, for 137, and I don't have realtor fees because I'm selling it off market. 93,000 is my all-in, guys. Look at that. It's it's it's going to be a a $44,000 profit except for we found that window thing. Let's subtract four. So, $40,000 like that. What am I doing during this process? Literally nothing. I just want to reiterate, guys, the the the the start to finish process of this is, "Hey, man. Um, I see you've got this house for sale. Can I send my contractor?" Great. Thanks. Hey, I sent my contractor. Looks like there's some issues in the property. Let's see what I got it for really quick. 57 and it was listed for initially listed for 74. So, it was it was listed for 74. I got it for 57. So, I called them and I'm like, "Hey, this is going on. This is going on. This is going on. And this is going on. I need to be here." And they said, "Yes." It was like two phone calls, right? Just two easy phone calls. Um, realtor sends me the contract. I didn't do the contract. I signed the contract. EMD submitted day one 500 bucks. Easy. It cost me 500 bucks earnest money. Submitted that. Um, comes off of my loan, right? Uh, as far as the renovation, I make no design decisions. Um, it's just it's just investor stuff. So, really nothing going on um in terms of materials or any of that. I I don't think about it. My contractor does everything. He calls me once a week and gives me an update. So, I'm just playing the waiting game. Now, there's when I say active versus passive, wholesaling is, "Hi, can I make you this offer? Hi, can I make you this offer? Hi, can I make you this offer?" This is do that once, maybe twice and you're done and just wait for the project to finish. Um, as far as your buyer, you can send it to my team and my team will blast it out and we'll just ask for a little fee for to for that service. Um, kind of like an unofficial realtor. Um, or you could list it on the MLS, which is no problem whatsoever. Now, if you're selling a multif family, you're selling it at investor prices, right? And that means they need to get themselves a 20 to 30% cash on cash return. Um, so how do you figure out how did I determine that these guys would pay 1375? Um, well, the way that I determined that they would do that is I put it into a mortgage calculator, as in my asking price, and I I wanted to see if it made sense. So, 137500, right? Um my down payment if I were buying this normally would be what is that 26 274 27400 maybe is that 20% 275 perfect um interest rate might be a little above below this but we'll use 7 um 731 in monthly payments actually I think it would be like 6.75 so we'll use 700 in monthly payments 700 in monthly payments your taxes and insurance on this bad boy probably looking like 250 um you're paying 950 per month Each unit will rent out for a,000. So you'll bring in 2,000 per month, but I take off 20%. Don't worry, I'll give you this formula in just a second. In fact, I'll type it out here. Rent time.8 minus piti, mortgage payment, principal, interest, taxes, insurance, mortgage payment. You should know that if you're flipping. Um, and then I'm going to multiply that by 12 and divide by total cost of entry, which is down payment plus closing cost for the buyer. Closing cost for the buyer probably $9,000, maybe $10,000 even. um which is unfortunate but that's the nature of DSCR loans. So that's your formula. Now this is my rent. I'm multiplying by 08. That gives me 1,600. I'm subtracting my monthly payment of 950 which is my PITI, right? Um PNI, principal and interest is my monthly payment of 700 or so because it would be a slightly lower rate than this. And then 250 for taxes and insurance. That leaves me with a monthly profit of this much. If I multiply that by 12, that leaves me with a month a yearly profit of this much. And if I divide that by my total cost of entry, and I think we probably get 1050. I think 1050 is a little bit more accurate, but your total cost of entry is going to be about 365, right? 365. So my cash on cash return comes in a little bit low at 21.3%. Um, but still good enough to get it done. Let's run it one more time at 2100 because I I I I feel like it's extremely feasible to get 1050 per unit. And this is not even with section 8. So I'm going to go ahead and subtract my PITI again of 950. That's going to put me here 730 per month. Multiply that by 12. I'm looking at 8760 per year. Now um I divide that by my total cost of entry. Total cost of entry is looking like um 275 plus closing cost. So let's call it 365. So cash on cash sitting at 24% if we use 1050 per side which I think 1050 is fine cuz it's going to be fully renovated. Um which is which is good enough. It it closer to 25 30% ideally 25 30% would be perfect. Um but but yeah when you're flipping a multif family you should look at your your after repair value or the price that you're looking to sell it to your buyer at and you should say to yourself if they buy it at this price what return do they get based on fair market rents? And then that equation that I shared before is how you can determine that. And and I think that I think 20% is definitely the minimum, but really should be closer to 25%. Now, a single family, which I don't really flip single family. I guess I just did a single family in Oklahoma. That's what the 66,000 is from. The single family needs to be pretty. The single family needs to be an attractive house. So, so it's more about um your comps, your pricing, and how attractive your house is than your cash on cash return. So your multif family is all about if I buy it at this price, what sort of return do I get? But your single family is this needs to be the prettiest house on the block. This needs to be tasteful. This needs to be attractive. And and honestly, maybe you should look at some other sold products in the area to see what people are flipping um and to see what level of rehab they're doing in the area. Now, what I'm going to do is um I'm going to show you what I'm currently under contract for in terms of multif family and then I'll find one as a single family. So, I'm currently under contract on this property. I'm paying 775 for it. And I really like this deal, guys. Like, I really like this deal. You see how messed up the exterior is. That's the only thing wrong with the house. It also needs mechanicals. It needs a water heater and furnace. But this is this is the only thing that's wrong with it. Like, it needs siding. It needs a roof. It needs a water heater. It needs a furnace. All of that can be done in 2 weeks. I'm most I I love this because it's actually a six bed, two bath. They lied about this or more so they just didn't know. It's a six bed, two bath. So, we found that out in the walkthrough. And the interior needs nothing. And I will be able to find photos of this property. So, if I put it into PropStream, PropStream is going to tell me, well, no photos there. Let's go to realtor.com. That's usually where you find photos. Yeah. Perfect. Okay. So, this is the exterior. Ugly, right? As soon as you get into the interior, you're like, "Oh my god, it doesn't need anything. It's fully done up top to bottom. It barely needs anything. Um, so I'm putting about 25 into this. Actually, I'm putting about I think it's a little more than we thought. I actually think it's like $30,000 into this cuz I need a roof and siding and and and you see the mechanicals are missing here. Water heater and furnace. But the basement's in really good condition. I mean, you can see the two attachments right here for your your water heater and furnace. But it's um it's it's it's a really straightforward flip. Everything's new except for the outside. So, it just doesn't need anything, guys. very very light work and it will probably only take me about two weeks to finish this project. So I I like this because I'm buying this for7500. I'm paying 5,000 in closing costs. I think I asked for 31,000 from my lender because I need closer to 27 28,000. U maybe no it's actually 26. 265 is what I need. So I asked for 31. So I'll be in it for 1135. I should be able to sell this thing for 150k. Maybe $145,000. Um, so if I subtract my my 100, let's call it maybe 1475, 147 500, and the reason I can sell it for 10K more than the other one is because um it's got way more beds and baths and square footage, so it'll sell for more. So if I subtract my all-in of 1135, I'll make 34,000. And and I think the reason I'm excited about this is it's quick. It'll be done really quickly. So I should be able to get this in a month and a half. you know, it takes probably a month to close on the property, two weeks to renovate it, and and probably another three weeks for the second closing. So, um, 34,000 on that. Now, if I wanted to do this on a single family, different story entirely. Totally different story and it's a little bit more of a risk because I can't really predict what retail buyers are going to do. Um, I can just try to make the house as pretty as possible. So, um, I'll show you what I know about flipping single families and we'll see if we can find one. I'll talk about where to find the lender and the contractor really quickly. So, if you're in Discord, right, in hold my hand wholesale, I should be sharing my screen on that. And you click on the group and then maybe you're on the homepage and you type uh # private money loans. We're going to continue to build out this tab here, but this is where you can apply for the private or I'm sorry, for the hard money loan to renovate the property. Well, they'll pay for the purchase um or maybe they'll pay for 90% of the purchase and 100% of the renovation and you'll have to come up with5 or $10,000. Now, after you do two or three projects, that won't be the case anymore. They will trust you. You're a less risky investment for them, so they'll trust you with the full money up front. Anyways, um this is this is the the lender. Now, as far as contractors, how do you find contractors? Well, I'd go to Facebook. Um, I would go to groups and I might go to I don't know, may maybe we could do this one and then maybe I'll look up contractor and see if we can find somebody. So, after about 6 years of renovating houses, I'm in the position where I need to pursue a contractor's insurance. Don't know what that is. Anyone doing a terrible Okay, contractor. Um, how much should I pay a contractor? Would you fire your contractor for this? Hey, I'm just curious. No, no, no, no, no. I'm looking for somebody marketing their services. I'm a licensed general contractor. I charge public materials cost times three. It's a simple strategy been effective. Okay, that's one way to find them. That's one way to find them. Um, but honestly, I searched this the other day in a different group and I found so many. Um, I might search keywords related to contractor to find a contractor in a Facebook group and I would meet on Zoom with them. Your most likely area that you'll fail here and lose money is your contractor. Like through and through. It's not going to be unknown issues. It'll be your contractor. So, you could also do Detroit fix and flip contractor. Um, and then what you can do is you can see if you can find anybody, Detroit contractor, and you can reach out to these people. Now, I wouldn't do one that has like a million reviews. I would probably do one that has maybe good reviews, but maybe only like 20 or so reviews. Um, because then they're not going to be super busy and you can get them to work on your project quickly. But, [snorts] um, I would start meeting on Zoom with individuals like this. And really, I know we didn't find very many people on Facebook. Like I think we found one. But these real estate investing groups, if you search keywords like general contractor or um I'm a contractor, who needs a contractor, something like that, you're going to find a ton of people and examples of their work. Now, it's important for you not to hire you want to hire a contractor that does the type of work you're looking for. So, for example, um if you're doing a uh if you're doing a an investment property like this guy right here, you don't really need a lot of important design decisions. So, you should have a contractor that's used to doing just the bare minimum work. Um whereas, if you're doing a single family, uh more like what we're going to look at here shortly, you're going to want a contractor who's used to doing luxury stuff. Do not make your single family millennial gray or it will not sell. Okay, so you know how to find your contractor. meet on Zoom with no less than five of them. I want you to feel out their vibe, guys. My first contractor stole $35,000 from me. They will steal money from you. I'm just going to I'm just going to put this in your face right now. They will try to rob you, but there are things you can do to mitigate this. Meet on Zoom with them. Feel out their vibe. Does this seem like a normal person or is this guy like kind of a crackhead? Um, you really need to be sure about that. Second thing, ask to see their previous work. Ask for references. Do you have anybody who really likes to work with you, who can talk to me about, you know, your work and how it's gone for you? Um, and then the third thing is have the listing agent confirm the work after every payment. So, let's say you pay him $5,000 at a time. Send him five and then send the listing agent, the person who sold you the property, that realtor, give him 50 bucks and say, "Hey, can you check to see that he actually did what he said he was going to do for this 5K?" Cuz you're doing this virtually. So, you don't have to pay him all of the money up front and just hope and pray that he does the work. Send them a little bit, check it. Send them a little bit more, check it. And and you do that process after you've vetted them, after you feel warm and fuzzy about who this individual is, you've seen their previous work, you have their references, etc., etc. Make 100% sure that your contractor is licensed and bonded. You need to see these things. It can't just be like, "Oh, I'm a handyman. I could do that work." No. licensed and bonded through and through. And honestly, it's not going to be that hard for you to find somebody cuz a lot of people just want to do good work, right? That they just want to do good work. They just want to get paid. They don't want to commit crimes, right? So, make sure that they're licensed and bonded. Make sure that you feel good about them. Make sure you've seen your previous projects. And even after all of that vetting, still don't trust them. Have the realtor confirm the work every single time. Okay? So, you've got your lender. you know how to find a you know how to find a contractor. Um let's talk about how to find a single family. Guys, here's the thing. There's not very many multifamilies. I want to just show you guys. Multif family u max price point probably for multif family is looking like probably 100,000 if it's going to be distressed cuz we're only doing distressed properties. There's 130 of them in Detroit. That's all well and good. Okay. Um now let's go ahead and look at single family at 70,000 maximum and we will do just houses. Whoa. All of a sudden, there's like 10 times there's 10x that, right? Crazy. Um, and we it's not even showing us this area over here, guys, because there's a lot a lot of them up here as well. So, um, where do we want to flip, right? Detroit, um, Cleveland. You should stay in cheap markets. Why? Well, let's say you flip a house and it doesn't sell. And let's say you flip a house and it's 300K and it doesn't sell. What happens? Well, you can't refinance out your loan cash flow. Your loan is going to cost more than the house rents out for. But let's say you owe a 100K on your loan and you were trying to sell the house for 150K and it doesn't sell and it sits and sits and sits and sits and sits and sits and oh my god, why is nobody buying my property? What am I going to do? Refinance. Go to the bank and say, "Hey, I owe 100k. It's worth 150. What can you give me?" They'll say, "We'll give you 110K over a 30-year mortgage. You know how much your 110K is going to cost?" Let's find out. $110,000, no money down. Um, it'll cost $700, $900 per month with taxes and insurance. How much will that house rent out for? 1 $1,500. $1,500, maybe more than that. 16 $1,700. So, if you're flipping a house in the 300K price range and you go to the bank and you're like, "Hey, um, my house is worth 300. How much can you give me against that?" Let's say, um, I could give you 75% of $300,000. Let's say that that's 225, right? Your mortgage payment will be maybe 2,000 a month with taxes and insurance. and the house will rent out for maybe 18,900 2,000 2100 a month, it's going to be a losing investment for you. It's not going to cash flow as a rental property. You're not going to have a good time if you do that. So, if you can keep your after repair value at $150,000, even if your flip goes south and it doesn't sell, great. Refinance it. You've got yourself an awesome rental property that cash flows for you. You understand what I mean by refinance? If you have a house that's worth 150, the bank will give you 75% of that on a 30-year mortgage. So, if you if you're selling the house for 150 and you owe $110,000, you could take that money out on a 30-year loan and have it turn it into an awesome rental property for you. So, I to start and maybe you're willing to be more risky later, but to start, let's keep our after repair values at $100 to $175,000. Now, how do we figure out where these houses are? We just look at where they're selling. So, I I don't know where the good areas in Detroit. I've never been to Detroit. I don't know. Um, so let's do minimum 140,000, maximum 175, and let's find out where the concentrations of single families are. So, not for sale, sold. So, where are these houses selling in that price range? Well, not so many here, not so many here, not so many here, a lot there. Um, okay, let's zoom in a little bit more and see if we can find a real nice cluster of houses. Lots here, lots here, lots here. That's great. This area though right here, I mean, this whole area is just that's just swimming. So, let's let's just try to loosely draw around that area. Went like here, not there, and then here, and then down to there. So, whatever reason, that pocket is not a good area. There we go. Look at all these sales. Look at all these. And if I click on the first property here, that's a fix and flip. That thing is fully renovated. And you're like, how do you know that? Well, let's roll the dice. See if I'm right. If I click on it, I can see it's now owned by Martin Chrome, who is an individual. The interior appears to be renovated, but not immensely nicely renovated. Renovated, but kind of an average lame renovation. And then if you look at mortgage and transaction history, okay, Andrew scratched that. It's not a flip. Or you could just stop it right there. Um, yeah, just stop it when I say and and as I look at the first property, that's a fix and flip, guys. So, so you can see that it has a new roof, new siding, it's been painted. It's not an ultra luxury fix and flip, but at the end of the day, it's 140k house, right? Okay. So, there's lots and lots of houses being flipped here. I mean, if we just look at the past year in this area, how many houses have sold here? 128. So, that's perfect. This is a really active area. It seems that people really want to live here. Um, and if we if we go back to for sale now, we just see if we can find a distressed one here. So, go from price low to high. See what the cheapest house here is. And look at that. You found yourself a deal. Don't do this one. It's a 21 and it's a box. It has no square feet. Don't do that. Same thing. Uh, don't do that. Same thing. That could be fine. Um, [snorts] but I like this guy right here. I like this. Um, what does it need? Ah, not a lot. Not a lot. It, you know, it's just kind of ugly. Just doesn't need that much. Um, okay. So, let's figure out what it would sell for. Oh, that's in a different area. And it's right next to the highway. Instant nogo. Who wants to live next to a four-lane highway? Not me. Not me. I don't I don't want to live next to a four-lane highway. So, that's a no-go for me. I'm not interested in that property at all. Um, let's keep looking. Um, and then all of a sudden the price points get a little bit too high for me to think we can flip these. Yeah. So, these are all turnkeys. Those are all turnkeys. You can make wholesale offers on those. But, but I'm I see that there's nothing here. There's not going to be anything here that works for me. Um, so I'm going to repeat the process again. I'm going to put in my desired price point for after repair value 140 to $180,000. I'm going to go from for sale to sold and I'm going to find another cluster. Um, so it looks like looks like this area is pretty Oh yeah, that area is pretty popping. kind of this whole area right here. Not really so much right there, but So, you remember that this is a pocket that people don't like to buy in for whatever reason. So, I'm going to go Well, I I forgot what it looked like. So, I guess I guess it's really just like here to here to here. And then you just want to cut out that area right there. For whatever reason, they just don't really want to be there. And then once again, we're going to remove our filters. Now, we know another good area in the in the city, and we're going to go for sale. This is a pretty big area. Um, we're priced low to high. Here's a four bed, one bath, 2,000 ft². It's got lots of square footage. I love that. But I'm sure they probably aren't telling the truth about the square footage. This is great. That's great. Okay, let's see if it's next to anything that we wouldn't want it to be next to. No, it's it's it's um it's [clears throat] it's deep enough into the neighborhood. But I think that'll be okay. Okay. Now, we're going to draw an even smaller line around here. Not crossing this major road here to here, here, and then here. And then this is our comp area. This is this is, you know, the the relevant area. We are a four bed, one bath from 1942. So, we're going to go from for sale to sold. And we are going to just look at the past 12 months. We already have that filter in place. Price high to low. And we're going to see if we can find something else. So yeah, immediately lots and lots of properties like this. That's a 43 sold for 265. Perfect. Um, let's find a more reasonable one, though. I think that's pretty representative of what we are. It's a 1948 33 1920 sold for 220. Guys, you you've got a clear ARV in the 200s. Let's look at some of these and see if they've been flipped. So, I want to understand the level of rehab that we're doing so we know what to do to our property. So, looking at the photos of this property, uh, yeah, millennial gray. Yeah. Um, horrible design decisions. Sorry, Mr. Flipper, if you're watching this, but, um, your interior design is bad. You've, nothing here is tasteful. Um, we're going to do tasteful rehabs. We're not going to do rehabs like this. We're going to do tasteful rehabs. Um, what do I mean by that? Well, sure, everything's fine in this property, but how could you make this how could you make it stand out? What what could you have done here to make this interesting? Um, I would use different countertops. I would give it a backsplash, a really pretty color. Maybe maybe like an orange backsplash. Maybe like a um maybe I would do butcher block with a with a forest green backsplash. Maybe I'd paint the cabinets a different color. Um, you would want to look at a ton of interior design magazines and figure out a color scheme that works for you and then do that every single time. like print the same product every single time so your contractor knows exactly what to get. Guys, this is Home Depot material. This is as cheap as cheap gets. Your property will fly if you do a good rehab on it. Now, looking at the deal. Yep, that's a win. So, somebody bought this at a sheriff's deed sale. So, somebody got foreclosed on their house. They paid 27,000 cash for it. They renovated the house. Maybe they put in what do you think? 60 70 maybe they put in 60 or 70,000 sold it for 220. They probably made a cool 100,000 on this thing. Just so you know. Just so you know. Cool 100,000 on that. Um and we are we have more square footage and we also are um more bedrooms too. So I don't see a reason why we couldn't sell for that price. Um I think 220 is just fine. Now what do we need to get there? The roof looks fine. I would paint the brick maybe black or white just to make it have that really interesting pop of color. We've got new new carpet, new paint on the walls. Um, so maybe our carpet and paint is like 5,000. Call it $6,000. Um, that's a really tight floor plan right there. I might want to open that up. I think that's okay. But guys, that's just so tight in there. Might want to open that up. So, maybe we knock down some drywall. Maybe we drop another $7,500 on rearranging the drywall here. Eh, call it Call it $8,000. $8,000. Um, bathroom. Yeah, new bathroom for sure. Um, guys, I feel like 50 would make this stellar. It doesn't look like anything's wrong with the property. It's all cosmetic. So, I think 50 would make this thing stellar. So, I mean, let's just assume worst case scenario, 175K ARV and 75K rehab. You buy it at their asking price 60,000. You put in 75,000. You're in it for$1 135. Your holding costs are $5,000. I mean, guys, you would make money at list price, but we know we can get it so much further below list price. Um, it's been sitting here for 5 days. We probably get this thing for 45K easily or 40. You know how we you know how we do it, guys. 40 45K. Um, I'm I'm sure we could get it at 45, maybe 40. But let's say, let's do the real numbers now. You get it for 40. Rehab comes out to 45K. Realistically, that'll probably be where it is because there's nothing wrong with the house. It looks to be in fine condition. Um, maybe you've got 4,000 or maybe you've got 3,000 in holding costs. And then, uh-oh, you found something else in the property. You have to fix that. Another $3,000 cost. Um, and then what other expenses are you going to have? Purchase, rehab. Um, your closing costs are going to be about $5,000. Um, you'd be in it for 96. This thing will sell for over 200. Let's say it sells for 210,000, which is still pessimistic. You pay 6% to 5% to your realtor. You walk with $1995 and you're in this thing for a total of 96. It's just a cool $103,000 profit. It's just a cool 103. Do you see? Do you see how insane this could be, guys? See how crazy that could be? Exact same thing can be done with multif family, guys. You can you can do the same thing with multif family, but I want to let you know there's no comping at multif family. you caught multif family to see if it's if if there's other sales happening in the area, but it's really about it's really about your cash on cash return. So, use that formula for multif family and I'll let you know after about 150 155k your cash on cash return gets really really low unless it's like a triplex or a quadplex or something like that. So, um, for duplexes in cheap markets like Cleveland, Akran, Dayton, Toledo, Columbus, Cincinnati, Detroit, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Rochester, New York, you're probably selling them for between 150 and 160, right? Or or really 130 and 150, right? Um, that's just to hit that perfect cash on cash return for them. Of course, you can test your luck with the MLS and see what price you can get there, but I'm more of the perspective of I'm going to sell it off market to one of my existing buyers. Now, let's talk about what I'm making an offer on right now. Um, so this is the last thing I'll show you here. This is my most recent. I personally like to flip multif family, but there's not very many of them. There's genuinely not very many multifamilies available. Here is something that I'm interested in flipping. So, I I I came across this property. It's a lot like the one that just needs the roof and siding. Um, check it out. Lots of good character. Looks pretty. Uh-oh. Needs new siding. This is okay. The city just tells you to do this to prevent break-ins. And then I go to the interior. Damn. really just doesn't need anything on the inside. The inside is like fully turnkey. Needs very very very very little work. Um this is seemingly a really light work project. Um it looks like it does need mechanicals or maybe they have them in storage, but yeah, this is a um four bed, two baths. Probably sell for about 140,000. Um I'm probably going to get this thing for $70,000. I'll probably put about 27,000 into it. Um and maybe I'll be able to make 45K on this thing and it will be another quick project for me. So, um, this is what I'm making an offer on right now. You guys can look for stuff like this, but the reason I've spent a lot of the time today on single families is there's not very many good multif family deals. Like, I've looked at almost every one. There's like three in Detroit. And and and where where else can you do this, guys? Where can you do this? Um, list of cities with median housing prices below 200K. Anywhere here. Anywhere here. You see this? Anywhere here is fine. I wouldn't do Arkansas. I don't know a lot of people living there. But southwest Atlanta, Georgia, hell yeah. Hell yeah. College Park outside or within Atlanta. Perfect. Yeah. Um I would just I would just try to keep it cheap. Try to keep it cheap. Like Jacksonville, like Cleveland, like Columbus, like Akran, like Detroit, like Birmingham, like Huntsville, um like Mobile, Alabama. But you have to see that people are buying renovated houses there. You have to I guess there's one more thing I'll look at here. There's one more thing I'll show you before we head out. And that's going to be what success looks like for people who have flipped these houses. We're going to put in our $150 to $180,000 price range here. [snorts] We're going to go to one of these hotspots and we're going to click on one that just sold. So, this guy just sold for $180,000. I want to see what level of rehab they're doing in this price point. So, looking Oh, no photos. So, let me see if this is a fix and fl Maybe it is, maybe it isn't. photos. Yes, photos. Just so boring. So boring. These floors are so cold and tacky. That's kind of cool. I like the light fixture. Okay. Okay. I think I I I think this would have been better if it weren't so millennial gray, but I like the gold. I like the backsplash. That's cute. Um I feel like the floors could be warmer. That's such a cold floor. I I just wish the the floors weren't so damn cold. Um, I would go for an I would go for a warm kind of like island vibe vibe LVP in this. Um, and I think that would just warm up the space entirely. Um, you want to see one that I think is really tasteful. I I wholesale the house. 232 Kelner Road, Columbus, Ohio. Got an 18K fee off this. The renovation they did is is is is cute. Look at this renovation. This is this is not the one that I was thinking of actually, but this is cute. You see that warm vibe that it's got? They've got these warm these floors. It just gave it a much warmer feel with just those floors and the staging. Staging is great, too. You might want to pay for staging after you flipped your property. Staging is the fake furniture. Like, this is, you know, this is this is not fake. This is real stuff. They brought it to the property, but usually you stage a house for, you know, a couple weeks while people are walking in. But the important thing that I want to highlight here, guys, let's see if we can find that sale. Um, okay. So, here's that property, right? This Oh, well, there's one of those properties. Um, I'm going to draw around their general vicinity and I want to look at some of the comps that are going on here, guys, because honestly they they've done a really good job on a lot of these properties. Um, something to note, this countertop is out of style. This is out of style. This is this is 2008 um 2012 even. It's it's not it. These lights are out of style, too. Make sure that you understand what looks good, guys. Make sure you know what looks good. Uh maybe a realtor can help you out with that. But I've got one that I really do want to show you. I'm going to price these things high to low. And then I wanted to show you one of these two bed, one bath fix and flips because there's a two bed, one bath that is just stunning. They just did such a good job. Where's one of those nice rehabs? Okay, here they are. Here they are. So, let's look at some of these. So, how' you do? This is This is nice. This is nice. Um the floors. Yeah, look at that, guys. That's That's tasteful right there. Look at that. They've got the gray cabinets, the butcher block, the subway tile backsplash, the warmer floors. I think that's homey. It It feels more like home. And it's not a super expensive rehab. Look at this. Look at this little touch they did here. Isn't that cute? That little that little design right there. It's stuff like that that really makes your fix and flip sell, guys. So, this is just this is cute. They've just done a good job on that. I like that one. I think it gets even better, though. We just looked at that. Um we just looked Well, that one's This is This is great, too. They did a good job on that one. Um, let's look at you really quickly. Millennial Gray. Boring [ __ ] Trash. I don't like that at all. That's not good. That's It's just so cold. It's just so cold. We We could do so much better than that, guys. Let's look at this guy. What' you do? You go millennial gray with it, bro. Yeah. No. Um, I just feel like we could do better than that, guys. I feel like we can make more tasteful decisions. And honestly, um, if you want to know what sells really well, look up one of these markets. Look at the look at the highest sales in the area and it will help you understand how you should renovate your house. Look at that. Another example of butcher block and subway tile that it's warm. I don't love the floors, but it's but it just looks good. I like that little light right there. That little orb right there. That's nice. Um, and then the farmhouse sink, too. Stainless steel farmhouse. That's nice. Stainless steel appliances. Looking good. So yeah, guys, if you're flipping single family, you better be the prettiest one. And as you're seeing, these houses are selling even when they're not the prettiest one. But aim to have a really attractive finished product, guys. And if you're flipping multif family, aim to hit a a a 23 to 30% cash on cash return using fair market rents, using that formula I gave you earlier. Anyways guys, that's my um fix and flip course. Um, it will evolve as I continue to collect more of these checks from flipping houses. But I am passionate about this. It takes so little work. It takes so little work. Once you have the contractor, once you have your lender, you're good to go. It's so simple.